<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Research Project Proposal<title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Research Project Proposal</h1>
    <p>
Annaka Jahn
	
Introduction 
		
I will be studying the area of applicable solutions to misogyny in the music industry of the United States. This field is important to research and contribute to because sexism in the workplace is a relevant and dramatic influence in professional culture. It affects the wages of women in the United States as well as their ability to do their jobs in a socially stable and respectful environment. This area of research is important because it centers around how to resolve these issues and not on whether the issues exist in the first place. Just six years ago, the wage gap was 26% higher for men’s average salaries compared to women’s (Racial and gender pay gap statistics for 2021). From 2012 to 2020, only 2.6% of music producers for a set of 600 songs were female and it was even less for the sample of just the 2020 Billboard Hot 100 songs. (Annenberg Inclusion initiative's Annual report on popular music reveals Little Progress for Women). By this year (2021), Americans have to face the difficult truth of wage gaps and sexism in the workplace. However, this truth is one that requires swift and effective solutions as well. 

Background/Review of the Literature
	
	It is safe to say that the current occupations filled by women in the music industry in the United States are frozen in place. They make up almost all of the lower income positions and find themselves teaching more than men, compared to traveling, writing and performing (Prior et al. Women in the U.S. Music Industry Report). So, what we see is that the glamorous and higher paying jobs in the music industry are being occupied by men. Surveys show that women have noted several solutions to this issue of gender inequality and simple nonexistence in the field of work*. These include purposeful inclusive hiring practices, mentoring and internships, and accessible networking opportunities (Prior et al. Women in the U.S. Music Industry Report). One can observe the problems even when women enter the workplace or classroom early in their careers, that there are social phenomena that isolate them and put them at a disadvantage. One of these instances is common, in which men will collaborate and practically ignore women during the process (Hinkle-Turner Women and music technology: pioneers, precedents and issues in the United States). Just the addition of these extra factors can diminish the social space in which a budding artist, producer, manager, or songwriter can begin to flourish early in their career. The result is a workplace culture that largely excludes the small amount of women present in the first place. In the aforecited work by Hinkle-Turner, the conversation around mentorship is written about and yet, once women have mentors, there are questions about their quality as such, and the experience they help create for these women. 
By bravely sharing their stories and experiences, women in the music industry have 
notified the public about gender inequality and harassment in the workplace. Groping and rape 
are results of a lack of social discipline and sense of respect men have in this field. No matter how much “support” and “confidentiality” women are allowed after reporting sexual abuses in the music industry, their wellbeing is still generally unsafe in a field that houses so many unscrupulous and privileged men that will never publicly answer for their crimes against the women that they work with, manage, and mentor (Mackenzie Rape and abuse: The music industry's dark side exposed). 
	What I would like to explore in this research project includes mainly solutions that effectively address and reduce the number of “bad mentors,” or men in positions of power and influence that have thus far been able to harass and assault women in the music industry as a form of control and use of power. This social aspect is the most difficult to tackle because it cannot be as clear as a statement of intent by a company or an individual apology to the public on the part of offenders. 

Rationale 
	
	I will begin my study with not only the questions I have at present but the reasons for which they may bring the music industry closer to becoming  a neutral or equal environment for all genders. By asking these questions, I can take action that provides substantial evidence as to what the best options are in terms of fixing the problems that actively threaten women and their financial success in musical careers. 
If women are supported more effectively in the process of reporting harassment, will they have access to the careers once offered to them conditionally in exchange for being abused?
How do we teach men in the music industry to be socially inclusive to women in workspaces and in collaborative projects?
How do we reduce or eliminate bad mentors in the music industry?
3a. My hypothesis for the answer to this issue lies in the words of Berkers and Pauwke, in that mentors must “pro-actively involve them and help them [women] grasp opportunities,” as well as ‘Create space for women to voice their opinions and make them feel comfortable,” (Berkers and Pauwke Lights, cameras… mentors). This tactic as well as the presence of more female mentors for young women in the music industry will allow more safety and networking opportunities. 
3b. If the aforementioned hypothesis is confirmed by way of qualitative research, then our society can verify that sexism in the workplace is not only a real phenomenon but that the music industry and audio tech world is a largely inequitable place for young women to work in. The implications that a confirmation would bring would include the motives that mentorship in audio must be reviewed and ameliorated, diversified (in that women should have more female mentors), and strengthened as a networking resource for young women so that they feel safe to work and collaborate with men without fear. 



Method and Design
4a. The method by which I will be gathering data is most thoroughly described as a storytelling, narrative approach within my regional community of music production-oriented professionals. What this means is that I will be focusing on individual examples within the largest group of subjects I can manage to include in my study. For ethical reasons pertaining to personal experiences with harassment, sexual misconduct and discrimination in the workplace, subjects must be volunteers in this information sharing process. The group from which I collect my data will not exclude those who identify as male, because it is important to hear the voices of all genders when the intent is to solve a problem rooted in gender inequality. 

4b. To gather as much information as possible to substantiate my hypothesis, I will record sets of interviews with the consenting group members of the study’s subjects. If not audio recordings, I will likely transcribe the answers of those who prefer this method, and collect my textual pieces to construct a large picture for my community of what the workspace looks like for women in the music industry, and why my solution would work, according to their answers. By letting others’ voices be heard, I can organize a harmonious collection that is effective in persuading the public and relevant organizations that strengthening female presence in the field of music production, active involvement and conscientious encouragement are the answers.
 
4c. The stimuli in this project will be questions in the forms of recorded interviews with subjects. In terms of variations, gender is an important piece to proving that my hypothesis is valid and possibly correct all in all. The variations will be brief introductions of myself and other voluntary interviewer participants. That being said, it is likely that I will present half of the subjects with the same questions but through the voice of a man who is my same age and of roughly the same income level. This is because the music industry’s sexism has an effect on women’s salary possibilities, being that they make up a larger number of the lower level positions, rather than those making the most dramatic decisions at the top. This adjustment alone, of the interview questions being presented by a male will not solely support my hypothesis but rather, add to the stories I will likely gather from men and women about their career field’s inequalities and limitations. What is likely to occur if the interviewer is male, is that the stories may sound different, perhaps diffused, shorter, or over-explained. This is because the men are the ones in this field that have the upper hand of these inequities. If there is a notable difference in the length of answer, amount of hesitation, and use of individual words more than the words used when answering the questions from a woman, then I can gather these into a cogent conclusion that both men and women are necessary in involving women in the music industry into the field without discrimination and gender-based ignorance. 
Separately, once I have recorded the interviews, I will enter the repetition of keywords in my hypothesis into a chart to see how often they are involved in the subject’s answers regarding the ways in which women can gain a stronger presence and number in the field of music production. By picking out the words myself, there will inevitably be bias, given my background and gender. However, if I retain the structure of my hypothesis as a derivation base to create these keywords in the first place, I believe this is a condensed and centralized approach. 
4d. If I am looking at the gathered data to see if my hypothesis will be disconfirmed, I will be looking at a lack of repetition, lack of changes in word usage and speech length in front of both interviewers, and a full record of experiences lacking in content related to gender inequality, harassment, and gender-based issues in the careers of people in the music industry and community. If any of these are notable and present, they could possibly disconfirm my hypothesis. 

5.Conclusion
	If one were to fund this research, I would be able to publish my findings in journals and personally so that I can contribute to my musical community’s awareness and action regarding gender inequality in the workplace. This is important to me as Portland, Oregon has a large number of independent and signed artists working in close proximity with one another and sharing social and networking resources. If the culture can improve as an effect of my work, then I will have accomplished what I set out to do. As a woman in the music industry, I would greatly appreciate a significant change in the form of inclusion in my career, and live to see a difference before and after my work in terms of how I can help the problems I have observed and dealt with. 
</p>
  </body>
</html>
